<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Dying Man and the Vulture</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-dying-man-and-the-vulture" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Dying Man and the Vulture</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Wait, wait yet awhile, my eager friend.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I shall yield but too soon this wasted thing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose agony overwrought and useless</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Exhausts your patience.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I would not have your honest hunger</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wait upon these moments:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But this chain, though made of a breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is hard to break.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the will to die,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stronger than all things strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is stayed by a will to live</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Feebler than all things feeble.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forgive me comrade; I tarry too long.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is memory that holds my spirit;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A procession of distant days,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A vision of youth spent in a dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A face that bids my eyelids not to sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A voice that lingers in my ears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A hand that touches my hand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forgive me that you have waited too long.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is over now, and all is faded:⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The face, the voice, the hand and the mist that brought them hither.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The knot is untied.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cord is cleaved.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that which is neither food nor drink is withdrawn.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Approach, my hungry comrade;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The board is made ready,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the fare, frugal and spare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is given with love.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come, and dig your beak here, into the left side,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And tear out of its cage this smaller bird,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose wings can beat no more:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I would have it soar with you into the sky.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come now, my friend, I am your host tonight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you my welcome guest.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
