<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Lion's Daughter</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="the-lions-daughter" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Lion's Daughter</h2>
			<p>Four slaves stood fanning an old queen who was asleep upon her throne. And she was snoring. And upon the queen’s lap a cat lay purring and gazing lazily at the slaves.</p>
			<p>The first slave spoke, and said, “How ugly this old woman is in her sleep. See her mouth droop; and she breathes as if the devil were choking her.”</p>
			<p>
				<i>Then the cat said, purring, “Not half so ugly in her sleep as you in your waking slavery.”</i>
			</p>
			<p>And the second slave said, “You would think sleep would smooth her wrinkles instead of deepening them. She must be dreaming of something evil.”</p>
			<p>
				<i>And the cat purred, “Would that you might sleep also and dream of your freedom.”</i>
			</p>
			<p>And the third slave said, “Perhaps she is seeing the procession of all those that she has slain.”</p>
			<p>
				<i>And the cat purred, “Aye, she sees the procession of your forefathers and your descendants.”</i>
			</p>
			<p>And the fourth slave said, “It is all very well to talk about her, but it does not make me less weary of standing and fanning.”</p>
			<p>
				<i>And the cat purred, “You shall be fanning to all eternity; for as it is on earth so it is in heaven.”</i>
			</p>
			<p>At this moment the old queen nodded in her sleep, and her crown fell to the floor.</p>
			<p>And one of the slaves said, “That is a bad omen.”</p>
			<p>
				<i>And the cat purred, “The bad omen of one is the good omen of another.”</i>
			</p>
			<p>And the second slave said, “What if she should wake, and find her crown fallen! She would surely slay us.”</p>
			<p>
				<i>And the cat purred, “Daily from your birth she has slain you and you know it not.”</i>
			</p>
			<p>And the third slave said, “Yes, she would slay us and she would call it making sacrifice to the gods.”</p>
			<p>
				<i>And the cat purred, “Only the weak are sacrificed to the gods.”</i>
			</p>
			<p>And the fourth slave silenced the others, and softly he picked up the crown and replaced it, without waking her, on the old queen’s head.</p>
			<p>
				<i>And the cat purred, “Only a slave restores a crown that has fallen.”</i>
			</p>
			<p>And after a while the old queen woke, and she looked about her and yawned. Then she said, “Methought I dreamed, and I saw four caterpillars chased by a scorpion around the trunk of an ancient oaktree. I like not my dream.”</p>
			<p>Then she closed her eyes and went to sleep again. And she snored. And the four slaves went on fanning her.</p>
			<p>
				<i>And the cat purred, “Fan on, fan on, stupids. You fan but the fire that consumes you.”</i>
			</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
